# Computational-Musicology
# What is your corpus, why did you choose it, and what do you think is interesting about it?
I am want to look into the correlation of listeners between sampled based music and thier original samples. I believe this would be interesting as a considerable ammount of hip hop, especially in the 90s era, is sampled based thus allowing me to see if the average listener is inclined to seek out the orignal samples used by producers. This will allow me to explore questions regarding the listeners behaviours for this genre of music, and if they listen to the original samples which often fall into completely different genres or if listerners are contained within the respective genre. It will also enable me to look into the degree at which these original samples were manipulated (pitch changes, cuts, coppression etc) to guague how far they have been transformed and interpolated from their orignal musical genre. 
# What are the natural groups or comparison points in your corpus (e.g., albums, artists, genres, people)? What do you expect to be different among these groups, what do you expect to be the same, and what are you unsure about?
I will put together my own playlist for the producers such as Timbaland and the Neptunes which currently do not have comprehensive playlsits curated of all their used samples, while using publicly curated ones for an artist such as J Dilla who is known for heavy sample use. Each respective producer have their own albums and singles, but their production credits for dozens of other artists will require me to look into these artists catalogues. 
# How representative are the tracks in your corpus for the groups you want to compare? For example, is there a well-known difference between the live and studio versions of one of the artists, or is Spotify missing an important recording? Or if you are using a personal playlist of yourself or someone else, what percentage of your or their music listening takes place on Spotify? If your corpus is genre-based, how well do you think it covers the genre you are interested in, and what do you think are the most important gaps? There is no such thing as a perfect corpus, and it is important to think from the beginning about its strengths and limitations.
Using spotify does eliminate the factor of hardcore music listenerss and fans of these producers who listen to their music in physical form, and if they seek them their subsequent samples. However this allows me to to focus my reserach on examining which I can presume to be discovering these artists after their innitial release allowing me to look at the listening habits of new users.  I will use the following playlist as a basis for my research into J Dilla's production samples (spotify:playlist:6eQuLy3XkE1ZZDKrV10CIK) while putting together my own for the producers Timbaland and The Neptunes. By using these three in particular I beleive I will have a significant sample size and be able to dertemine a conclusion through correlations based on data.  
# Identify several tracks in your corpus that are either extremely typical or atypical. Why do you think that they are so typical or so strange? Several pages of your final portfolio will be dedicated to detailed analyses of specific tracks, and so it is important to think about which ones might be most interesting.
Jay Z and Kanye West's 'Gotta Have It' (2011) uses the orignal sample of James Brown's 'My Thang' (1974). The first data point of relavance is the disparity in their plays on Spotify with 78 million and 1 million approximately respectively. This is a recurring theme throughout most of the songs I will look at as the sampled song in most cases has considerably less listens than the song using the samples except in a few distnct cases. I will therefore have to determine the songs which do no not follow this relationship in particular to guage if this relationship is fixed or there are excemptions. 
